---
layout: post
title: Grant proposal
---

Teagle Foundation RFP Category
------------------------------

###Hybrid Learning and the Residential Liberal Arts Experience###

Project Title
-------------

###Hybrid Liberal Arts Network: High Touch Learning for the 21st Century###

[Full Proposal Link](https://www.dropbox.com/s/c4lbn7t5iyjphjb/Teagle-MHLC-Jan2-15.pdf?dl=0)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Project Abstract
----------------

Albion College, DePauw University, Grinnell College, Hope College, Lawrence University, and Wabash College have formed an alliance called the Midwest Hybrid Learning Consortium, or MHLC. The MHLC has come together to develop and teach hybrid courses collaboratively. The MHLC envisions an eventual hybrid liberal arts network that will live on after the grant is ended. It will include more institutions than just the MHLC colleges and will share hybrid courses among member institutions. In the Spring 2015 pre-implementation phase, eighteen MHLC faculty and their courses will be identified for hybridization, three from each school. The courses will range across different disciplines and will be developed cooperatively across institutions by their instructors. In the implementation phase, faculty will be exposed to hybrid skills and hybrid course design in the summer 2015 workshop, and course development will continue through the Fall by means of various on-campus events. A summer 2016 workshop will be devoted to sharing hybrid experience to that point, to further course development, assessment, additional skills acquisition, and to concentrated work on the hybrid liberal arts network plan. The last phase of the project will be organized around a plenary conference in the summer of 2017, to which other schools beyond the MHLC six will be invited. The MHLC schools will lead presentations on the process of course hybridization, effective practices of collaborative teaching, and the process of hybrid course sharing among institutions. The new hybrid learning network will be promoted to other liberal arts colleges, who will be encouraged to join the network and contribute to its shared hybrid course offerings.
