##### Hope College Haworth Inn and Conference Center, Holland, Michigan -- June 7-9

-   A workshop for all faculty interested in hybrid learning and the
    design of hybrid courses
-   A workshop to implement the Teagle hybrid learning network

*Sunday June 7*

-   Check-in at the Haworth Inn and Conference Center beginning at 4 PM
    for those staying overnight
-   6:00 PM Steering committee dinner, City Vu Restaurant -- meet in
    Haworth lobby at 5:50

Conference WiFi for Hope College Guests - Network: Hope Conferences
password: hope15welcome Conference web site:
[hybridliberalarts.org](http://hybridliberalarts.org) *Monday June 8*
8:00-9:00 Breakfast 9:00-9:45 Welcome and Introduction:  the Teagle
project, and the workshop plan - Barry Bandstra, Hope College Religion
Department and Teagle hybrid learning project director
9:45-10:45 Keynote address:

-   "Creating the Liberal Arts Environment Online:  Design
    Considerations for Hybrid and Online Courses" - Elizabeth Trembley,
    Hope College English Department (see below for details)

11:00-12:00 Open discussion of potential hybrid projects. For some ideas
see:

-   [Academic Commons: Case Studies on Digital Collaboration and
    Blended/Hybrid
    Learning](http://www.academiccommons.org/collaboration-and-blended-learning/case-studies-on-digital-collaboration-and-blendedhybrid-learning/)
-   For additional examples and hybrid resources, see [Hybrid/Online
    Resources and Links](http://hybridliberalarts.org/?page_id=44)

12:00-12:45 "Birds of a feather" buffet lunch in Haworth
Transmatic/Gentex room -- continue discussions of hybrid course projects
at lunch tables 1:00-2:00 Keynote address:

-   "Implementing and assessing flipped learning in face-to-face and
    online contexts" - Robert Talbert, Grand Valley State University
    Mathematics Department (see below for details)

2:00-2:10 Break 2:10-4:40 Faculty demos of hybrid/online active learning
and open discussion Session 1

-   2:10 Hybrid introductory Spanish instruction - Berta Carrasco de
    Miguel, Hope College Modern and Classical Languages
-   2:35 Challenges of teaching hybrid humanities - Mark Husbands, Hope
    College Religion Department
-   3:00 Remote physics lab - Paul De Young, Hope College Physics
    Department

3:25-3:40 Break Session 2

-   3:40 Universal design – Sam Johnston, CAST / Universal Design
    forLearning
-   4:10 Live jazz organ instruction at a distance – Rob Hodson, Hope
    CollegeMusic Department

4:40-4:50 Break 4:50-5:50 Assessment discussion led by CILA: approaches
to assessing the Teagle project 6:00-7:00 Dinner by invitation
in Haworth Transmatic/Gentex room 7:00-8:00 "Open Mic" demos and
discussions of effective digital learning practices. Open invitation to
share "one good digital thing" for hybrid/online teaching and learning
8:00 Retreat to one of the many brew pubs in the Holland area *Tuesday
June 9* 8:00-9:00 Breakfast 9:00-10:00 Tutorial tool demos

-   9:00 Explain Everything (iPad) - Darin Stephenson, Hope College
    Mathematics Department
-   9:20 Screencasting - Arno Damerow, Lawrence University Instructional
    Technologist
-   9:40 Digital assignments - Martyn Smith, Lawrence University
    Religious Studies

10:00-10:15 Break 10:15-11:45 Next Steps -- Collaborating to build and
deliver the Teagle hybrid courses

-   Six schools' technology infrastructure  - David Berk, Lawrence
    University
-   Communicating and collaborating online - Donnie Sendelbach, DePauw
    University
-   STEM hybrid possibilities and challenges - Jim Brown, Wabash College
-   College administrations and the hybrid network - John Woell, Albion
    College

12:00 Box lunches Adjournment \*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\* **Keynote
-- "Creating the Liberal Arts Environment Online:  Design Considerations
for Hybrid and Online Courses"** Some people worry that the distinctives
of liberal arts education can't survive in hybrid and online courses. 
Of particular concern is students' experience of community and the
development of relationships with each other and with the faculty
member. After all, the popular conception of hybrid and online courses
places the teacher in a role of mere deliverer of content and sees each
student as a lone consumer of a course in a box. But this isn't the only
option for online education! With careful consideration of the online
medium, educators can create a thriving liberal arts environment online
by transforming traditional approaches and techniques. In fact, I have
found that high touch learning experiences can be even better online!
Examples from hybrid and online writing classes will help participants
think about their own courses. **Elizabeth A Trembley** earned her Ph.D.
in 1991 from the University of Chicago in English Language and
Literature.  While serving for nearly a decade as the Head of Academics
and Faculty Development at a multi-campus university, she received
leadership and communication training at Disney University and Herrmann
International.  A certified practitioner of the Herrmann Brain Dominance
Instrument, a thinking styles assessment used by international
businesses to promote thinking agility in a world of complex change,
Trembley led training in creative leadership at the corporate level.  
She has been a member of the Hope College faculty since 2000, teaching
traditional, hybrid, and online courses in writing.  Her scholarship
includes publications on Michael Crichton, film adaptations of novels,
women in detective fiction ... and Batman, and her creative work
includes both fiction and nonfiction.   Currently, Trembley is
completing a book for faculty entitled *How to Use Writing To Teach
Anything*.  She is also an award-winning mystery novelist, a certified
master dog trainer, and a habitual sketchbook keeper. **Keynote --
"Implementing and Assessing Flipped Learning in Face-to-Face and Online
Contexts"** Flipped learning promotes the kind of intellectual
independence and self-motivation that real-world problems desperately
need, and it's never been easier to implement a flipped classroom with
the wealth of inexpensive and simple technology available to students
and instructors. But effective flipped learning still requires a careful
approach to maximize its effectiveness and improve student learning,
especially in hybrid and online settings. In this talk, we'll explore
what flipped learning actually looks like as well as the role of
assessment in flipped learning, in a traditional face-to-face course
design as well as hybrid and online courses. **Robert Talbert** is an
Associate Professor in the Mathematics Department at Grand Valley State
University in Allendale, Michigan USA. Dr. Talbert is a pioneer in the
use of flipped learning in university-level courses in mathematics and
computer science and has served widely as an author, speaker, and
consultant on flipped learning in the US, Canada, the United Kingdom,
and France. At GVSU he received the Pew Teaching with Technology Award
and was a finalist for Michigan Distinguished Professor of the Year in
2015. He goes by @RobertTalbert on Twitter and blogs for the Chronicle
of Higher Education at Casting Out Nines, located
at [http://chronicle.com/blognetwork/CastingOutNines](http://chronicle.com/blognetwork/CastingOutNines).
He lives in Allendale, Michigan with his wife, three young children, and
three cats.  
