---
layout: post
title: Hybrid Projects
---
### [Harry Brown](mailto:<hbrown@depauw.edu>) (DePauw) and [Ian MacInnes](mailto:<imacinnes@albion.edu>) (Albion) in English and digital humanities.

Advanced literary study increasingly uses digital tools and the methods of the so-called “digital humanities.” Such tools and methods, however, have not yet been formally integrated into the English curriculum at places like DePauw and Albion. Collaborators Harry Brown (DePauw) and Ian MacInnes (Albion) plan to connect two upper level English classes in the spring of 2017, a class in Elizabethan Literature (Albion) and class in American literature between the Revolutionary War and Civil War (DePauw). MacInnes and Brown will exchange their expertise in integrating literary study with the tools of the digital humanities, drawing in part on material they developed using a previous [GLCA Expanding Collaborations Grant](http://www.dla101.org/) (summer 2015). For example, MacInnes will draw upon Brown’s expertise in macroanalysis to help students make effective use of the enormous database [Early English Books Online (EEBO)](http://eebo.chadwyck.com/home). In turn, Brown will draw upon Macinnes’ expertise in digital mapping to help students develop spatial and geographical claims about early American literature. Students in each class will also serve as peer commentators for the digital work being done by students in the other class.

### [David Reimann](mailto:<dreimann@albion.edu>) (Albion) and [Suman Balasubramanian](mailto:<sumanbalasubramanian@depauw.edu>) (DePauw) in Mathematics, multivariate calculus.

Univ 184 N  Applied Projects in  Calculus and Linear Algebra using Mathematica  (currently scheduled to be offered as a half credit course by Professor Suman Balasubramanian during Winter 2017). This course will involve applications of  Multivariate Calculus  and Linear Algebra using Mathematica. These applications will arise from a broad range of disciplines, namely Computer Science, Mathematical Biology, Stochastic Modeling, etc. . This will be a hybrid course where the students will predominantly have online self contained modules helping them with learning the software and basic principles of the projects in addition to face to face contact for the  course. The students will then work independently on their applied projects using this hybrid method.

### [Heather Betz](mailto:<hbetz@albion.edu>) and [Thomas Ball](mailto:<tball@depauw.edu>) (DePauw) in kinesiology.

### [Shonda Kuiper](mailto:<kuipers@grinnell.edu>) (Grinnell) and [Adam Loy](mailto:<adam.m.loy@lawrence.edu>) (Lawrence) in mathematics and statistics.

Making decisions with data is becoming an essential skill in almost any area of study. Data are now easily accessible, and numerous software programs are available to conduct almost any data manipulation that a researcher can imagine. To address these changes in our data-rich society, the new Guidelines for Undergraduate Programs in Statistical Science (ASA 2014) are advocating for fundamentally different pedagogies with an increased emphasis on data science. A 2011 report by McKinsey & Company states, “By 2018, the United States alone could face a shortage of 140,000 to 190,000 people with deep analytical skills as well as 1.5 million managers and analysts with the know-how to use the analysis of big data to make effective decisions.” Data science draws heavily on skills residing at the intersection of mathematics, statistics, and computer science (MSCS). We propose to create collaborative course materials in data science that provide new pedagogical models that could dramatically transform how students think about data-based decision making.

### [Adam Galambos](adam.galambos@lawrence.edu) (Lawrence) and [Humberto Barreto](mailto:<hbarreto@depauw.edu>) (DePauw) in economics: History of Economic Thought Videos

Humberto Barreto (Q. G. Noblitt Professor of Economics and Management, DePauw) will create content to be used in History of Economic Thought (next taught at DePauw in Spring, 2017). Current plans are for three videos: (1) a summary of the the treatment of entrepreneurship in the history of economics, (2) the invisible hand and static versus dynamic models in economics, and (3) Piketty on inequality in the distribution of income and wealth. All three of these videos will also be relevant for the Economics of Innovation and Entrepreneurship course of Galambos, and the first and third will additionally fit into the Comparative Economic Systems course of Galambos. Both of these courses will be offered in 2016-17. 

Adam Galambos (Dwight and Marjorie Peterson Professor of Innovation and Associate Professor of Economics) will create content for the Comparative Economic Systems and for the Economics of Innovation and Entrepreneurship courses. These videos will likely be on 1) the history of the socialist calculation debate, 2) the relevance of several recent theoretical advances in economics on the various arguments in the socialist calculation debate, and 3) some aspect of innovation originating from Silicon Valley, most probably the “sharing economy.” The first two of these videos would be relevant for Barreto’s History of Economic 

### [Marcy Sacks](mailto:<msacks@albion.edu>) (Albion)  and [Jean Petit](mailto:<petit@hope.edu>) (Hope) in history: Black Lives Matter

We are examining the history that has contributed to the development of the Black Lives Matter movement. The intent is to create a joint website that will highlight the long background of oppression, resistance, and grassroots organizing that has helped lead to this historic moment. Specifically, the students in the Albion class will explore the more distant past (the decades after the Civil War) in which racial oppression in an age of supposed freedom was constructed, while the Hope students will focus on the more recent era in which activism became more pronounced.

Our goal is for the students to create a website with information about various of society since 1865 that help us understand the wellspring of frustration that finally erupted in the grassroots movement, Black Lives Matter. The themes on the site will include everything from the history of policing and violence in black communities to systemic racial disparities to culture (as a form of resistance and as a form of oppression) to individual leaders, and so forth. The students have generated their project ideas and will write the content to populate the site.

### [Beth Trembley](mailto:<trembley@hope.edu>) (Hope) and [Deborah Seltzer-Kelly](mailto:<seltzerd@wabash.edu>) (Wabash) in writing and education: Hybridizing Peer Editing

We are exploring the hybridization of the peer editing process in writing.  In particular, we are collaborating on the development of online peer workshops to improve students’ skills in effective peer critique as part of the revision process.  While we may practice these developments in a variety of courses, in particular, we both work with pre-service teachers.  So part of developing this online review process engages these students not only as writers, but as future teachers whose work will most certainly be done, at least in part, online.

### [Martyn Smith](mailto:<martyn.smith@lawrence.edu>) (Lawrence) and [Barry Bandstra](mailto:<bandstra@hope.edu>) (Hope) in religion, Quran, Hebrew Bible: Sacred Texts of Violence

Martyn, an Islamist, and Barry, a Hebraist, are collaborating on hybrid learning modules that examine the topic of violence in the sacred texts of the Abrahamic religions of Judaism and Islam. Martyn regularly teaches a course in Islam that includes texts from the Quran. Barry regularly teaches a course in the Hebrew Bible. Both scriptures contain challenging texts that advocate conquest that is accomplished by brutal military force, including genocide. With our respective texts, Martyn and Barry will unpack the established procedures of contextual literary-historical methodologies for interpretation. This will lay the groundwork for exploring the role of religious violence in the ideologies of religious faith traditions. The hybrid text analysis modules we develop will be used across our institutions in our courses, such that Barry's Hebrew Bible students will be exposed to basic Quranic reading and interpretation, focused on core texts, and Martyn's students will do likewise with texts from the Hebrew Bible. After our classes respectively have been exposed to basic Hebrew Bible and Quranic text analysis, we will meet in video conference to compare and contrast the texts and traditions of Judaism and Islam with reference to violence. Barry will be teaching Religion 222 Introduction to Hebrew Bible in Spring 2017.

### [Mike Pikaart](mailto:pikaart@hope.edu) (Hope) and [Lon Porter](mailto:porterl@wabash.edu) in chemistry: possible project in 3D Modeling.